[Music]
I will watch people and they if they're
just following their intuition man they
will just pick the next thing and this
is what we do when we're when we're just
following our nature my nature my
authenticity improved me in ways that I
didn't even know were
happening welcome to the art of
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease I'm Brett
kler here today with my co-host Joe h
[Music]
when we consider how we want life to be
in the future we often create a list of
things that we have to improve about
ourselves yet we rarely consider that we
could succeed in improving every aspect
of our lives and by doing so completely
lose touch with who we are and what we
want what if learning who we are creates
a future far better than what we think
we want What If it creates a future
better than what we could imagine
today's episode is about valuing
authenticity over Improvement
so Joe let's talk about authenticity
what is authenticity authenticity is
it's an endless spiral in in one way in
the fact that it's like it is
evolutionary by Nature we think that
there's an authentic self and it is the
solid thing but it's not it's like it's
as we discover ourselves there's always
more to discover and as we discover
ourselves we transform so authenticity
is really a path
more than a
destination and and the way that you can
identify when you're on that path of
authenticity is it's always about the
process it's never about the
reward and it's never like a means to an
end it's like a river it's it's a it's
very much like a river in the fact that
there's a way that a river wants to run
and that's the natural flow of the river
and next year you'll come back and that
River will run a different way so
authenticity is constantly changing but
there's just this natural flow to it you
know da ISM they call it the way um it's
just this very it's the very natural
course and they call it self-discovery
they don't call it like
self like building you know we're not
building ourselves we're discovering
ourselves and and that's why ultimately
the path of authenticity is a path of
self-realization it is finding out the
truth of who you are and
somehow for some reason the more we
discover who we are the more that
we evolve the more that we we change the
more that we show up in a way that is um
far more gentle or loving and confident
and
capable and strong can you talk a little
bit more about self-realization
yeah self-realization there's there's a
story of um there's this I think it's in
like the aaads I think
um I can't remember which tradition so
many times Traditions have really
similar Parables there's a another
Parable very much like this about a
tiger um but this one's about a musk
deer and this musk deer is like moving
along one day and they and it smells it
smells and there's a smell and it's like
what is that smell and it just feels
like a memory
it feels like a calling it's like
something gets opened up in this muster
and this impulse is like I need to
follow this thing I need to follow it
and it goes searching for the place the
where the scent emerges it wants to find
the that scent and the origin of that
scent and so it looks and looks and
looks and looks and it's like almost
upon its death still looking for the
scent and falls off of a cliff and
punctures it
stomach and it realizes at the moment of
death that oh the thing that I've been
searching for comes from me that scent
emanates from
me and that is the the movement of
self-realization is that the thing that
we're looking for in all the
self-improvement what we're actually
looking for is ourselves so how how can
you relate the uh the story of the deer
following and so and scent to our path
of self-realization the search of the
deer looking for the scent is is the
self-improvement it's like once I eat
the right diet then I'll be good enough
or I'll be awake or then I'll be loved
or once I look pretty then I'll be good
enough and then I'll be loved once I
lose enough weight once I um you know
meditate enough once
I um have no more negative thoughts
whatever the hell once I stop thinking
whatever it is that you think you have
to do you know become rich enough and
then you'll then you'll have it and
you'll you'll find the scent that you're
looking for but the scent you're
actually looking for is you it is to
understand yourself and it's the only
thing that really
solves the issue and it's why you see so
many Executives and I've worked with so
many Executives who are at the top of
their game they've made this successful
billion dollar company and they're
miserable and they they they did
everything that they thought they needed
to do to improve themselves so that they
will be loved or that they would accept
themselves and nothing's really changed
and as soon as they start on that path
of selfrealization as soon as they are
looking for their own authenticity and
they no longer are willing to sell that
authenticity or bargain that
authenticity for a
result is when it stops becoming a means
to an end and it just is like this is my
authentic expression then their life
starts unfolding in happiness and
joy right so let's talk a little bit
more about that that scent Trail then
what how would you define Improvement
yeah Improvement is basically if this
than this right like it's in in in terms
of the self so it's like if
I get sexy enough then I will have the
lover that I want if I lose enough
weight then people will like me if I
have enough money then I'll feel secure
it's anything that is Improvement is
like thinking that you're going to get a
result from it and authenticity is the
opposite so it's this is what I'm going
to do despite the consequences because
it's my authentic truth so that's that's
basically what Improvement comes and it
and it comes from the
idea of ways that we don't want to be
who we are right it's it's the other way
to look at all the ways we think we need
to improve is all the ways that we don't
love ourselves just as we are and any
point where you can't Unconditionally
Love Yourself whether that
is because you yell because you don't
work hard enough because you're lazy
because you're a pessimist whatever it
is that you are telling yourself that
you have to change it they're just ways
that you're not loving yourself and they
don't typically
change and we just keep on telling
ourselves that we don't love that about
ourselves and we keep on telling
ourselves that we have to improve it um
but when we actually accept our
authenticity those things just naturally
move they just shift reminds me of a
quote that I've heard before where like
a kid's asking or like speaking to
somebody as though we're a child and
it's like well there's a big there's a
question what do you want to be when you
grow up um and instead thinking to ask
that like how do you want to
be yeah when you grow up yeah that's I
have never heard that that's beautiful
yeah how do you want to be when you grow
up that's the the other the other way to
think about
self-realization is I think it's a pemma
sh quote and she it's basically
constantly offer yourself up to
Annihilation so you can find out what's
the part of you that can't be
annihilated and what are we annihilating
these these uh like builtup ideas of who
we are exactly that's exactly it the
things that we think we are that we have
to
defend you can tell them because you're
defending them it's like when someone's
like well you didn't do that very well
and you go then you are defining
yourself as somebody who's competent
and you're not able to love the
incompetent part of
yourself and authenticity is you know
this is what's this is how I'm competent
this is how I'm incompetent and being
able to own that and then in the owning
of the lack of competence becomes more
competence you know it's like this thing
where often times with Executives I'm
helplessness is this big thing where
they feel it authentically they feel
helpless but to allow themselves to feel
helpless is incredibly difficult because
the fear is if I allow myself to feel
helpless then I will become more
helpless but if they authentically if
they authentically own their
helplessness then they become less
helpless I think there's also a fear of
being seen as help then too that's right
fearing that there will be consequences
to that that's how you know also that
part of yourself that needs needs wants
to be destroyed it's the part of
yourself that doesn't want to be seen in
that way whatever that way is I don't
want to be seen as blank a hypocrite I
don't want to be seen as
a as helpless I don't want to be seen as
greedy whatever it is that you don't
want to be seen I don't want to be seen
as
weak so how how would you separate
improvement from from growth because
even even this process of finding our
authenticity you can get better at it
what is that if not Improvement and
don't we kind of need
some some form of improvement like
whether we're tracking our growth in
some way to see what the trajectory is
going yeah the question is like what
would make you need it like like what
will happen if you don't have it I think
that's where the the key is the key
is you know does growth happen
absolutely like if I look at I always
use this metaphor of an oak tree because
when I look out my window there's an oak
tree and and the it's like the oak tree
grows the growth happens does it need to
no is it looking to improve itself no
it's just it's nature our authenticity
another way to think of our authenticity
is our nature and our nature is to grow
our nature is to improve our nature is
to learn if you take a little kid when
they're like just really when they're
babies they can't even walk one of the
things that they smile most at is when a
face comes at them sideways not when a
face comes at them straight up and down
straight up and down face is the face
that they see right before they feed and
that doesn't make them smile as much as
a sideways face which means oh we're
here to play and play for a kid is
learning and we have this natural desire
to learn it is authentic in us we have a
natural desire to grow it's authentic in
us and it so it just all happens very
very naturally but it's when you think
you have to improve to be good enough
for when it's not just the nature of
your life and you look at
a six-year-old kid they're constantly
wanting to learn and grow like and it
doesn't stop it doesn't stop unless
someone has kicked the love of learning
out of us it just keeps going so I don't
think we have a need to do it I think
the the thing is is that Improvement is
Just Happening happening naturally and
that's authenticity but if you are
looking to improve
yourself then you
are you know putting the breakes on the
process and you're often going in the
the opposite direction of the river how
do we address the that fear of becoming
stagnant if we don't
improve yeah or just to to be measuring
you know measuring where we're at and
then you know measuring that according
to some scale of value that we've
created yeah that's a great question oh
first of all question your scale that's
the ultimate thing is like like it's
it's easy to play a game when you have a
measurement and it's hard to play a game
when you don't so if your measurement is
for life is how much money I have in the
bank well then you can play and if the
measurement is how kind I am to people
then you can play and then you have
something to measure to but if you start
really questioning those
measurements like what do you mean by
kind do you mean having the most
positive impact how do you measure
positive impact what's the difference
between kind and
nice and what if I was you know deeply
truthful but I was and kind and why is
kind more important than
truth so these questions as soon as you
start really looking at the the end if
you really deeply look at the end then
it gets really scary that's when the
stagnation fear really shows up it
really shows up when you're like oh all
the progress that I thought I was making
might not have been to the right end or
maybe there's no end and this fear sets
in like and it's almost like this fear
like it's going to be nihilistic or
something like that but even the idea
that it's nihilistic is just another um
it's like just another way of trying to
create meaning out of a situation but
the nature of life doesn't really
require meaning there's no other part of
life that requires meaning except for
humans so life wants to evolve it wants
to grow it wants to improve and it seems
as it turns out most humans when
they understand themselves more and more
there's a deeper and deeper compassion
that shows up there's a deeper deeper
amount of empowerment that shows up and
and what you find is the things that you
think are
opposite such as love and and being
empowered they turn out to be the same
thing at the Pinnacle of loving is
empowerment at the Pinnacle of
empowerment is
loving and so and you can feel this like
if you just stop for a second and close
your eyes and you feel what it would be
like to Unconditionally Love the
world and you just let that settle in
your body for a
moment and your love is so big and so
great that it expands
everywhere and it's not weak love it's
not love like I'm going to let people
abuse me it
is the kind of love that a mother has
that's a great mother they have
boundaries and then you let that go for
a second and then feel what it's like to
be completely empowered
feel what it would be like to not have
to worry at all about the future to
not have to
prepare to not have to
plan to just know that you are capable
of handling any situation it be like
Superman on a
Mountaintop with no Kryptonite in the
world or Superwoman on a mountain top
with no cryptonite in the
world nothing can touch you that feeling
of empowerment
and then just feel the two next to each
other like how are they different if at
all this full empowerment and this full
love so that's how it moves and so the
stagnation the fear of stagnation the
fear of like oh there's no meaning or
there's
no like there's no place to go and
therefore I'll stop moving it's it hits
the human psyche for sure it's it's
definitely part of this human psyche at
least in the modern world but life
doesn't require any of that stuff life
Can't Stop Moving see I mean just try
just try
um try to not improve for a week to go
take two weeks and do your best to not
improve don't learn anything don't grow
don't have any realizations don't have
any recognitions like try that for two
weeks
like I told someone to do that once and
they were like oh my God so many
recognition so much realization because
they stopped
trying and and we hear we feel this all
the time when we're on holiday you have
two to two weeks off and then you come
back and you're just you perform better
it's smoother the whole thing works
better like you make better calls
because you you you didn't improve for
two you know because you weren't
actively trying to improve for two weeks
this is it's just the nature of life we
we by our nature learn and want to want
to grow yeah something that came up for
me in the the exercise that we just did
um was that both in the like
unconditionally loving the world State
and the feeling fully empowered State
there wasn't any fear but the concern of
stagnating is just fear and the fear of
stagnating is the thing that you know I
know for me in my life I've spent a lot
of time in the fear of
stagnation and that has constricted me
in those times right and led to
stagnation stagnation exactly that's how
it works yeah we invite the things that
we're scared of like that's that our
nature our nature is to
invite um if we have a fear of something
we're inviting it in because we want to
we want to learn and grow from that
experience we want to face that fear so
the fear of stagnation invites
stagnation the fear of loss invites loss
the fear of Abandonment invites
abandonment so let's let's try to bring
this back into more uh concrete examples
to make this real yeah yeah let's I'll
do a couple of them um let's take like
one one way to look at it is like kids
and their learning so kids like we were
just talking about their nature is to
learn they're curious that's what
they're like genetically programmed to
do all humans are and somehow or another
we can put them into a school system
tell them that they have to improve and
get A's and then they stop wanting to
learn and then yeah exactly it's it's
actually happens to some like 47% of
like highly int kids they fail High
School yeah I did I did like really
great in school up until I got an IQ
test that told me I was smart and then I
got my first
B+ and this was like fourth grade and
then it was just like you stopped trying
to hell with this whole thing yeah
there's a there's some great
psychological tests on this that
basically if you tell a kid they're
smart and then they try and they don't
succeed they'll stop trying because then
they will prove that they're not smart
so they'll just stop trying so they can
maintain the identity of
smart it's it's it's some fascinating
work but yeah that's an example of it
and but now if you take kids who've been
unschooled there I think it's called
non-schooling or unschooling or
something like that where the you know
kids have been somewhat traumatized in
their school situation so their parents
pull them out and they say you know you
can't watch television you can't you
know do things that are destructive but
you can not do any work until you're
ready they often times don't do any work
for three months or six months and then
all of a sudden they're like okay I want
to work and those kids when they want to
learn math they can learn basically
fractions to calculus and it's something
insane like three months or like five
months or something like that you can
read the studies on it because they want
to learn because it is their desire to
learn in that direction and they want to
do it and they will do
it so it's it's like one is moving with
the authenticity of the situation and
one is telling the kids that they have
to improve to be good enough and and
it's like a punishment and reward
situation so that's one aspect another
another way is like a personal story
from my life to think about it
is I was in high school and I started
smoking cigarettes and I was kind of
socially awkward at the time and you
know I had issues you know my upbringing
was had some turmoil in it and and so I
was constantly telling myself I should
improve by not smoking I was constantly
telling myself that was something that I
needed to improve in and then just by
Nature you know I got drawn into hacky
sacking and I just started to hacky sack
all the time and I just really enjoyed
hacky sacking and it just kind of became
this thing and then about I it's 10
years ago I was with one of my daughters
my daughter's having some problems in
schools and this occupational therapist
came to us and they said like oh your
daughter has something called like
sensory processing disorder and it just
basically means that the neurology isn't
really melding the way it it it it would
with other kids and it makes you very
sensitive to um
stimulus through your senses and I said
oh how do we solve this thing and she
was like oh the way you solve it is
through doing um exercises across the
midline that require coordination etc
etc and hacky would have been a perfect
example of that and if you look at me
before hacky sacking and after hacky
sacking I became socially more fluid I
became less sensitive um I you know when
you have sensory processing it's it's
kind of like a a bit of like a nerds
disease is like you know more likely to
wear glasses you know you you're kind of
awkward and clumsy you don't do as well
socially it's like that kind of stuff
and all that changed with me hacky
sacking so my knew what I needed knew
what was needed next and did it without
anybody telling me to without anything
happening and I watch this happen all
the time with
clients I watch clients all the time
like I know basically the dance steps of
transformation and there everybody does
them a little bit differently and you
know sometimes chapter 3 comes before
chapter one or whatever but I will watch
people and they if they're following if
they're just following their intuition
man and they will just pick the next
thing and it'll it'll it be like oh my
God they picked it perfectly again and
this is what we do when we're when we're
just following our nature and then you
know smoking for me on the other hand
lasted until I was like 30s you know so
you know as a Perpetual habit into my
30s so and that was all the ways I was
supposed to improve but my nature my
authenticity improved me in ways that I
didn't even know were happening yeah
that's fascinating I can think of a lot
of experiences in my life that are a lot
like that you know one of them being
joining your 18mth course where I just
kind of felt like an intuition it was a
you know felt like a lot of money at the
time in retrospect it was very little um
um but it was just like man I don't know
like this kind of seems like my kind of
thing I don't even know what it is and I
didn't when I got there I was like wait
this isn't really all that business is
it yeah and yet it trans formed your
business too right which is the insane
part yeah that's the other thing yeah
but more than that my wife exactly I
mean that's the insane part like that's
a great example of it as well which is
like people come because they often come
to me because they want to transform
their business and and we transform
their life by them taking their natural
steps in their business naturally
transforms if they would have just
focused on their Improvement their
business may or may not have
transformed and in this way the reason I
use this methodology of working on the
personal stuff is because that always
transforms the business it it has 100%
success rate as the person transforms
their attitude towards their business
will transform and so will their
business so let's relate all this back
into that uh the concept you were
talking earlier about self-realization
and self-discovery yeah that's all right
so back to my journey let's let's do it
from my journey for a second so for the
early part I got really deeply into
Awakening enlightenment
in the non-d sense of the word not like
woke culture but I'm talking about like
the Christ Consciousness um or
Enlightenment how how whatever religious
tradition you have has a word for it and
at the beginning of that Journey it was
I thought it was Improvement that would
get me there you know once I was ate the
right diet or once I um you know did the
right exercises or once I meditated hard
enough or blah blah blah I would become
enlightened and so that was the
Improvement side of things and that is
it's a slow arduous painful
process um and it luckily moved enough
for me to realize that it wasn't about
Improvement it was just about the
recognition of who I am and and when
that happened this question appeared to
me is what am I was the question I asked
that question for 10 years maybe 10
times a day I would ask that question
and that is really what transformed
everything for me that just being in
that question for that long with that
level of Wonder transformed everything
and it was funny it was a I was seeing a
guy at the time one of the I was like
reading every non-el teacher I could
find as but the only guy that I had met
personally who I thought wow this is a
person I would want to learn from was a
guy named Adia Shante and I got up and
asked him a question once in front of
this big Auditorium of people and I said
I keep on asking this question what am I
and all I get is
silence and some dude in the back just
started laughing and and I was like what
why would that's not
funny and AIA smiled and can't remember
what else happened but I remember about
like 3 years later I was at a Meditation
Retreat when that question what am I
faded away and like the question never
gets answered it just
expires and it expires in a like like a
firecracker um but it EXP s and and I
was in the back and somebody got up on
the front and said you know I asked that
question what am I and and nothing and I
just started laughing
hysterically as if the nothing wasn't
the answer you know and and that's what
it turns into it it it that recognition
of self is is something that just
unfolds into
nothingness and that nothingness is
incredibly free and Incredibly potent
and capable so who are you
now oh yeah that question has
[Laughter]
expired yeah that's um there's a
there'll be an exercise there's an
exercise on this just to like go back
and forth and ask somebody what are you
over and over again what are you what
are you what are you and see what
happens is all your answers expire all
your answers you know um but if I had to
put what am I in words right now which
is exciting an exciting thought process
um I would say what am
I I am infinitely
you I am everything and nothing and the
silent
vastness that everything arises
in and so are
you okay so then then what happens once
that question EXP
sounds like there could be a trap here
in thinking that this question of who I
am has expired and now I don't have to
improve myself and there's just nothing
to do what am I goingon to do just sit
in a cave and meditate
until yeah yeah there's a thought that
says that that might be the case um you
know and in fact some people go through
that for a while I think it's because
they they're like those kids who you
know needed to be unschooled for a while
when they have that recognition of their
their essential self in that way that um
that there is this need to just sit
there for a while and do nothing um but
it becomes a bit disassociative and and
eventually um it's no longer satisfying
and and so it just turns out to be we
just become more and more human we like
to play We like to learn we like to grow
it's our nature it's our
authenticity and so once we have been
let out of school and we realize there's
nothing that we have to do to improve
ourselves because our Essence is
unbelievably beautiful miraculous a
dream that we never thought even
possible coming true that we couldn't
even have thought of coming true then
yeah there's there's
this natural desire to rest for a while
potentially um but eventually you you
just you know you want to move you want
to dance you want to play you want to be
alive and then the journey turns into
how do I be
alive how does my authenticity really
want to be alive how fully can I embrace
this life how you know there's a book
called The unbearable lightness of being
which I don't even know what it's about
but the title is amazing and that's what
it is life becomes how do I allow myself
to be more and more vulnerable to the
unbearable lightness of being
I love that both of us are the kind of
person who would recommend a book or
reference a book that we haven't read
just ofle title yeah I re I highly
recommend that
title the title
yeah so it seems like there could be
another trap here where like we have
these we have somewhere where where we
want to go and we're like oh okay so
maybe like improving myself along the
you know the particular metrics that I
have in mind right now maybe that's not
the best way to get there because
authenticity is the best way to get
there so if I just get more authentic
then I'll become this thing that I want
to be and get to where I want to
go yeah that's right that's that that is
a real trap right so it's like you'll
see this happen often time in tools you
know you get this this tool that you
start working with in in the realm of
self-discovery and you get this tool and
it works really well for a while and
then it stops working and some of the
times it stops working because you are
no you're using the tool to change
yourself instead of love yourself so it
stops working and some of the time the
rule the tool stops working because
you've co-opted it into Improvement
instead of recognition and it's really
the same thing to improve yourself isn't
to love yourself as you are and to find
the authentic expression of you is to
love yourself as you are and to know
that that authentic expression will
naturally change you just like it the
natural flow of a river changes the
river and that could mean your goals
will shift will shift yeah I I've never
I've seen a lot of things not change as
people go through this journey and I've
seen a lot of things change but I've
never seen the goals of a person not
change through the Journey that always
changes and what's often interesting is
the goals that they used to have just
get met naturally without any even
effort or thought process because they
become just a step in in what's
necessary for them to evolve into their
authenticity I had a goal for years of
having enough money to blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah and you know
somewhere along the line that I just
didn't care at all about money and then
money just started rushing in and that's
a really typical story not always but
it's a very very typical
story so you know we we've talked about
how having goals is wanting something is
is good we just had a whole episode on
how what you want how wanting itself is
critical but then we're just talking now
about how wanting something from
ourselves or wanting something in our
future can lead towards this constant
improvement process and away from our
authenticity what's you have to say
about that yeah
yeah so wanting is critical what you
want is really
inconsequential you know what you want
is like directionally correct but it is
not the the end all be all of
anything so it's like that wanting is
the is what pulls you that wanting is
the natural pull of evolution of
authenticity that's what it
is what you want
is a strategy to get there and there's
10 or 20 strategies so the the the what
you want is inconsequential and there's
no reason to attach to it but it is to
follow your wanting and then to watch
how your wanting changes and H watch how
what you want changes what happens if uh
if you're if you're going through this
process and you're the things that you
want just change so rapidly that your
life starts to
feel disconnected or
disorienting you're very
fortunate you're G you might feel
Disturbed depending on your personality
type you know some folks will find that
to be a beautiful free ride and some
people um will feel like there's that
quote on the song Sometimes falling
feels like flying for a little
while um and so people will be like Oh
I'm flying which means I must be falling
but in actuality there's the the the as
they say the good the bad news is you're
falling the good news is there's no
bottom so yeah that that is part of it
or roomie called it um a Sufi poet he
calls it like a holy
confusion that not knowing it's called
the mystery for a reason and so it's
absolutely what happens and the
goals shift and then the goals disappear
and then there's like no goals for a
while and then after there's no goals
for a while there's very specific goals
and then there's just like this movement
that's like how do I describe it it's
like the goal is to live principled
because you know that living princip
lead will make you happier than any goal
that you could ever
achieve and that's something that's
entirely within your power too yeah yeah
well yeah it it becomes choiceless at a
point it becomes outside of your power
at some point it's like I just can't not
live principally because it's too damn
painful give us give us a another
concrete example of how that works when
you know what you want is
inconsequential but the wanting itself
is important yeah I can I can give you a
funny one so I'm sitting with um my
godson and his father and Father's been
a friend for like since high school and
and this story is going to be one of
those stories that lets you know like
maybe you don't want to have me as a
friend and um so we're sitting there and
we're having uh lunch together in this
restaurant
and my friend tells me about how his son
stole $50 from him bought a vape pen and
was vaping in in a classroom
and I I'm just listening and Sons you
know in those teenage years
and and then all of a sudden um you know
five minutes later he says how he's like
the problem you know with my son is that
he just doesn't have you know ambition
he just doesn't want to do anything and
I was like what of course he wants to do
something do you know how hard it is to
do what he did I mean stealing $50 like
where like he planned that stuff out
that's ambition then he went did it and
then like with the knowledge that he
could have gotten caught which is total
ambition and then he figured out a way
to go buy the vape pen and then he had
so much ambition to do it that he did it
in a classroom and got caught like you
know that is like some CEO level
ambition that's not that like what are
you talking about like the the you know
you know at this point my friend is
looking at me like shut up Joe shut up
the son's looking at me like a smile
like oh wow I didn't know I should have
visited my godfather more often and and
then I was I was just saying yeah
there's I mean there's clearly ambition
it's just that you're want him to be
ambitious in one way but he's ambitious
in another let's look at how he's
ambitious and so started talking to him
and well what is it that you want to do
and he wants to play this particular
kind of sport that requires some money
and then you got to like get these guns
or whatever it's like it's like a laser
tag type thing the next version of a
laser tag and he's telling me about it
and I'm getting into it with him them
and then I'm like well how are you going
to afford this and he's like you know
well maybe I have to get a job all right
well what kind of job do you want to get
or this kind well you don't make a lot
of money and like how and then how are
you going to get there and we just went
through this whole thing and he was like
clearly eager to do all this stuff so
that he could so that he could do the
thing that he wanted to do and I was
like well how can your dad help and then
he is telling his father what his father
can do to help him being ambitious and
get things
done and that's the difference that's
the difference between you should
improve to what is the authentic
expression and and the thing is that we
do that we do that internally as well as
externally meaning we're usually like
the father in that story rather than the
Godfather in that story to
ourselves right we're we're telling
ourselves what we how to improve what we
need to do blah blah blah blah blah
instead of just paying attention to what
the natural thing is and if we if we
follow that thread far enough
down it it it has far better results it
moves much quicker yeah it's fascinating
by by that measure I was extremely
ambitious in barely passing any any of
my primary
school exactly yeah yeah I mean it's
because they couldn't hook on to you the
authentic you're most schooling doesn't
hook on on to a child's authentic desire
to
learn yeah in my case they presented a
lot of different tracks and
opportunities that all of which just
didn't quite hook yeah well it's really
hard to hook when you're telling
somebody when you're grading people and
say you need to
improve that's that's not that's not
hook worthy and it's it's like a a
culture of constant Improvement we we
don't we don't listen to songs that tell
us that we need to improve
we know you know wow triple platinum
song by Jay-Z called boy you better work
out more doesn't happen you know yeah
right right so so let's talk a little
bit more about how this works in
companies and you know in in more more
General sense in cultures of
self-improvement or just not even
self-improvement just cultures of
everybody needs to improve the constant
Improvement culture or yeah exactly see
it's again it's not assuming that people
want to improve by nature is what
happens here so a great example of this
is in that book Reinventing
organizations there's a n nursing
company in there called Herzog I'm I'm
bad at pronouncing these things and
basically what had happened it was in
Holland and what's happened is there's
these Community nurses and they got
privatized and and it just became all
about efficiency it all became improve
improve improve improve and it was
like this is how long it should take you
to get there this is how long it should
take you to administer the the shot this
is how long it should take you to get
back that's how much time you have
that's how much payment you're going to
get and everybody was going for the
improved
nursing efficiency and this company came
along and it did a lot of really cool
things but one of the things it did is
it said you know what our job isn't to
be as quick as possible what our job
it's not to improve our process in that
way it's to make it so that we help
people become
self-reliant and through figuring out
how to get to that home and make the
person self-reliant instead of
administer the shot they became 60% more
efficient than their competition or
something like that maybe it was 40% I
don't remember the numbers exactly but
it was a tremendous amount more
efficient and so one had that natural
hook because what we naturally want we
naturally want to help people that is
part of our nature all mammals that are
community- based mammals have altruism
as part of us and so they hooked on to
that natural thing and and then that led
to Natural Improvement but they weren't
trying to improve in some unnatural way
and the interesting thing is what you
know as soon as I say we're it's our
nature to be altruistic somebody will
say something like well it's our nature
to be self-interested and I say I agree
it is it's our nature to be altruistic
and it's our nature to be
self-interested and it's our nature to
want to be rewarded and it's our nature
to want our team to win and it's in our
nature for us to win and companies that
are really becoming the most efficient
companies are hooking on to all of that
right and if you think about that
nursing company their team
W they had individual reward for the
performance they that as it turned out
people got to decide their own reward
and also they got to help so they
they're hooking on to all of these
Natural Things in us and if you look at
the great products of our day and the
great nonprofits of our day they hook
into a natural authentic desire in
people and sometimes it's a drug like
like a Facebook or coffee and sometimes
it is not drug likee right sometimes it
is just our our nature to want to
communicate so so that's that's what it
means and so it's not only does your
product but your culture needs to if you
want to be highly efficient it needs to
hook into that nature of people our
authenticity another one of our ESF
group um was recently telling me about a
company that they're applying for it's a
that collections agency that operates on
transparency and um like in instead of
trying to be as efficient as they can
and milking the most money from people
as possible and buying the debt for the
cheapest as possible whatever um they're
optimizing for really being in
connection with people so they they
purchase debt and then they they're
transparent they're like hey okay so we
bought your debt for this much we have
this much of it we expect to get you
know a certain percentage of it paid
back from various places and you know
what can we do to get this paid off and
they end up getting with with that
transparency and working closer to to
their I guess their customers their
debtors um they actually get across this
sense of actually caring and they're
able to come up with much more Creative
Solutions which actually results in I
mean this is new company but it seems
like it's resulting in getting much
better results for them and also they're
getting just sads of testimonials from
um from customers that like wow I wish
all of my debt had been bought by this
company this is amazing they're actually
people and they talk to me yeah like a
human yeah that I mean we see this all
that you can see this in sales processes
are more effective when there's a real
relationship real connection going on
and that authenticity is there people
think they have to compartmentalize
themselves to do business
and that compartmentalization that
inauthenticity it absolutely makes you
less efficient it might make things
easier to do in the short term but
absolutely harder to do in the long term
and it makes you less efficient because
you're basically asking anybody you
interact with to compartmentalize
themselves that same way so a debt
collector compartmentalizes their heart
and they go in hard then their customer
compartmentalizes their heart and they
respond hard or they respond like a
victim or whatever it is but they're
going to they're going to match
that more on average so if we if we
focus on finding the authentic movement
then how do I collect debt in a way that
feels good in my system how do I nurse
in a way that feels good in my system
how do I produce a social media app that
feels good in my system all of those
will be a more efficient product and
then with that continual asking what am
I like what am I am I any ient collector
or am
I right yeah if I am them and they are
me then how do I want to behave here if
I feel my natural authenticity my desire
to learn and my desire to be of service
to people how do I collect debt in a way
that's of service to
people and you know it it feels horrible
to not pay your debt so to help people
feel like that they are standing on
their own two feet
and have achieved pay off debt I mean
that's a that's a can be a real deep
service for
humans yeah I wonder how many other
Industries can be rethought every one of
there's it's endless it's just like
there's always more money to be made
there's always a way to become more
authentic and each one is an efficiency
sounds like there's a there's a lot of
faith in this process because with each
layer of authenticity you find you
really have to let go of what you valued
or what you thought was important
important entirely for to find what's
beneath
it that's true yeah um you know it it
feels like Faith it's
like it feels like Faith until you get
used to like reading the river in some
way it's it's the same kind of faith
that maybe a basketball player would
have that's going into a game is like
you can't plan out the whole game you
can't plan out everything and
um so you're basically choos I am going
to plan out my entire basketball game or
I am going to learn how to read a river
and learn how to read the field learn
how to read my opponents and so that I
am competent in every situation where
I'm in that basketball game and then you
start having faith in your capacity to
handle situations and you become excited
where you can't handle them because it
means you've learn you're getting to
learn something and it makes you more
capable next time and so it's the same
thing it's like if you've learned to
read a river to go down that River and
get to the mouth of the river is it's
not an Act of Faith anymore it's just
it's just what you do um and you're
watching other people like build canals
so and that they that makes them feel
secure like I will just take a canal the
whole way but I have to build the whole
Canal it's a lot more effort so it's
it's very much like that once you start
realizing that your authenticity
naturally brings you to the next level
over and over again and that improving
yourself is like building a canal it's
like this idea of safety that takes a
tremendous amount of effort and is
really not that safe because lots of
people die building canals that's how it
works and so it feels constantly like
you're taking Faith or that you're
taking a risk and then at some point
you're like oh no it's more risky to do
the other thing it's more risky to be 60
years old and have you know all my
dreams have come true and I am miserable
which is where that typically
leads yeah I think we we often over
index on the cost the perceived cost of
stopping doing things the way that we're
doing them but forget about the
opportunity cost of continuing to do the
same thing yeah that's yeah that's
what's interesting is that's also part
of our nature right it's also part of
our nature to stay with something that
feels
safe so and predictable is safe that's
right that's right yeah that's exactly
right and luckily as authenticity
matures us as we evolve being authentic
we become more and more sensitive and
that stuff becomes more and more painful
where we're naturally kicked out of
those Cycles because we just can't
handle them anymore cuz they're just too
painful thanks for listening to the art
of accomplishment if you enjoyed what
you heard today please subscribe and
rate US in your podcast app we'd love
your feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach
reach out to us join our newsletter or
check out our courses at artof
accomplishment.
[Music]